Hello everyone! In this tutorial we will damage our character upon landing.
Let's go to the character class, press f12 and search for the file, type landed.
This function is called when the character contacts the surface after falling.
In our Base Character class, we can handle this event in several ways. First, we can
override the Landed virtual function, or subscribe to the LandedDelegate delegate.
Let's go to the BaseCharacter class in the BeginPlay function. Let's subscribe to LandedDelegate.
Add a function. The first argument is this as usual. Let's call the function in which we will handle
this event OnGroundLanded. We simply cannot use OnLanded, because this name is taken
in the base class of the character. Let's go back to the character file for a second and look at the signature of the delegate.
The function must have one parameter of type FHitResult. Let's declare our function with the given signature.
Go to the private section, don't forget about the UFUNCTION macro for dynamic delegates.
We create the body of the function.
FHitResult is a special structure in the UE that contains information about the contact of two objects.
That is, the point of contact, the normal, and so on.
We will look at this in detail in the next section when we deal with weapons. In our current
task, we will not use this parameter at all. So we have an entry point when our character
touches the surface. Let's log the Z component of the character's speed, since the final
speed of the body is directly proportional to the height from which the body fell, we can calculate the
damage that needs to be inflicted on our character depending on the given speed value.
We write: "on landed".
And we display the value of the FallVelocityZ variable.
Run the project.
Press the space bar. We jump into the console and we print -430. Let's go higher.
The value is about -780, that is, the higher we fell from the higher, the higher the landing speed.
Let's create two properties that will be responsible for the
height of the fall and for the damage caused when falling. The category will be Movement.
The variables will be of type FVector2D. The name of this type speaks for itself,
in this structure it is convenient to store a point, or a vector in two-dimensional space.
The first variable will be named LandedDamageVelocity.
This property will be responsible for the speed limit at which damage will be done.
Let the minimum value be 900, that is, for all values ​​that are less than this value, we
will not inflict damage and let the maximum value be 1200, that is, for all values ​​greater than this
number, we will take the maximum number of lives from the character, and with intermediate values ​​of
speed we will calculate damage is proportional. The second variable will also be of type FVector2D.
We call it LandedDamage. This property will store the damage value depending on
the speed limit values. The minimum damage value will be 10, and the maximum will be 100, that is,
at a speed of 900 we will have a minimum damage of 10 points, and at a speed of 1200 it will have a maximum damage of
100. So, let's program the damage. The first thing we will do is
check the extreme case: if the value of the final speed is less than the left value of
the LandedDamageVelocity interval, then we immediately exit the function, because there is no point in calculating damage - our
speed is small. You also need to multiply by -1, because when falling, the velocity vector is
opposite to the up vector and directed downward. With this condition, we simply call the return statement.
And if the speed value allows for damage, then let's calculate the damage value.
Let's use a convenient FMath function called GetMappedRangeValueClamped. Such a long name.
function and it works as follows. Firstly, this function is template, the template parameter is
calculated automatically, or you can specify it explicitly. The first parameter is the input segment.
We pass LandedDamageVelocity there. The second parameter is the output segment.
We pass LandedDamage there and the third parameter is this value, in our case this is the speed with which we
fell, and at the output we get a number from the LandedDamage segment, which in percentage terms
coincides with the FallVelocityZ position on the LandedDamageVelocity segment. Let's
multiply FallVelocityZ by -1 right away and remove the minus in other parts of the code. And we just need to call the TakeDamage function
with the given FinalDamage parameter. We pass it in the first parameter.
The second parameter is DamageEvent, we can pass an empty object with a default constructor.
The third and fourth are the controller and actor. Let's specify nullptr because this is more about
environmental damage , so we won't pass our own controller and this pointer. Press F12
on FDamageEvent, find FPointDamageEvent in the header file and note that this
class also has an FHitResult structure. Thus, we can create an FPointDamageEvent
and pass this structure in this event. And handle damage based on FHitResult
if we want to implement something less trivial. Let's also log the FinalDamage variable.
Launch editor.
We open the blueprint with our character.
Our properties are displayed: damage velocity and landed damage. Let's change the
minimum value to 600, so it will be more convenient to test. We start the game.
Let's climb up our steps and jump down. So, we got
FinalDamage = 55
We had 900 speed, and if we go higher then speed = 1000, and damage = 70.